Create import-variables-from-secret-manager.md (#818)
codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-docs: content/knowledge-base/import-variables-from-secret-manager.md

---

> title: Import Variables from a Secret Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Importing variables from a secret manager
```

---
title: Import Variables from a Secret Manager
weight: 2
---

> Codemagic allows you to add encrypted secrets and variables in the UI which can be used during your workflow. You can find our more about storing sensitive values in Codemagic here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codemagic allows you to add encrypted secrets and variables in the UI which can be used during your workflow. You can find out more about storing sensitive values in Codemagic [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/environment-variable-groups/#storing-sensitive-valuesfiles)
```

> However, it is possible to use third party secret managers in your pipelines. In order to do this, you will need to override environment variables defined in your codemagic.yaml configuration file during the build as explained here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it is possible to use third-party secret managers in your pipelines. In order to do this, you will need to override environment variables defined in your codemagic.yaml configuration file during the build as explained [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/using-environment-variables/#setting-environment-variables-during-the-build)
```

> ## AWS Secrets Manager
> 
> 
> The following documentation shows how to do this using AWS Secrets Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## AWS Secrets Manager
The following documentation shows how to do this using AWS Secrets Manager.
```

```

### Configuring an Android build using AWS secrets
The environment variable `GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS` must be provided with a valid Service Account JSON key, even if you will overwrite it with a different key later. Add this variable to a group called `service_account` and then import it into you workflow as follows:

```
environment:
  groups:
    ...
    - service_account
    ...
```

Add the following environment variable in your codemagic.yaml:

```
environment:
  groups:
    ...
  vars:
    GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS_HOLDER: $GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS
```

In your first script step, retrieve the Service Account JSON from AWS and add it to **CM_ENV** as follows:

```
- name: Set Service Account JSON from AWS
  script: |
    echo "GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS<<DELIMITER" >> $CM_ENV
    echo "$(aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS | jq -r '.SecretString')" >> $CM_ENV
          echo "DELIMITER" >> $CM_ENV
```

Reference the variable for publishing to Google Play as follows:

```
google_play:
  credentials: $GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS_HOLDER
  track: $GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK
```

> ## Doppler Secrets Manager
> 
> 
> The following documentation shows how to do this using AWS Secrets Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Doppler
The following documentation shows how to do this using Doppler.
```

> ### Add Doppler token to the Environment variables in Codemagic
> 
> You will need to configure the environment variables `DOPPLER_TOKEN` in the Codemagic UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Doppler token to the Environment variables in Codemagic
You will need to configure the environment variables `DOPPLER_TOKEN` in the Codemagic UI.
```

Environment variables can be added at application level, or if you are using a Team, they can be added in the **Global variables and secrets** section of you Team settings.
 

Add these variables to a group called `doopler_credentials`.

> ### Storing a secret in Doppler Secrets 
> 
> 1. Log into your Doppler account and go to your workspace then your project.
> 2. Navigate to the **SECRETS** tab,
> 3. Click on the **Add Secret** button.
> 4. Paste in the secret you would like to store, this can be an RSA certificate or simple string value.
> 5. In the **NAME** section enter a name for your secret field. For example, if you are storing your App Store Connect API key, you might want to name it using the same naming convention as Codemagic, e.g. `APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY`.
> 6. Repeat this process for other values you would like to store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Storing a secret in Doppler 
To store a secret in Doppler, do the following:

1. Log into your Doppler account and go to your workspace then your project.
2. Navigate to the **SECRETS** tab,
3. Click on the **Add Secret** button.
4. Paste in the secret you would like to store, this can be an RSA certificate or simple string value.
5. In the **NAME** section enter a name for your secret field. For example, if you are storing your App Store Connect API key, you might want to name it using the same naming convention as Codemagic, e.g. `APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY`.
6. Repeat this process for other values you would like to store.
```

> ### Generating a new Doppler Service Token 
> 
> 
> 1. After logging in navigate to the **ACCESS** tab in you project and tab on Generate.
> 2. Enter a token name and give it the *read access* and click **Generate Service Token**.
> 3. Copy the generated token.
> 4. Add the token to your Codemagic environment variable under the name `DOPPLER_TOKEN` in the Codemagic UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generating a new Doppler Service Token 
You can create a new Doppler service token as follows:

1. After logging in navigate to the **ACCESS** tab in your project and tab on Generate.
2. Enter a token name and give it the *read access* and click **Generate Service Token**.
3. Copy the generated token.
4. Add the token to your Codemagic environment variable under the name `DOPPLER_TOKEN` in the Codemagic UI.
```

> ### Install the Doppler CLI
> 
> The Codemagic base build image doesn't has the Doppler CLI by default, so we need to install it first.
> 
> The following example shows how to install the Doppler CLI using brew.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install the Doppler CLI
The Codemagic base build image doesn't have the Doppler CLI by default, so we need to install it first.

The following example shows how to install the Doppler CLI using brew.
```

```
- name: Install the Doppler CLI
        script: |
          brew install gnupg
          brew install dopplerhq/cli/doppler
```

After installing the CLI, you should export the `DOPPLER_TOKEN` so the other doppler commands will be authorized.

```
- name: Add the Doppler token to CM_ENV
        script: |
          echo "DOPPLER_TOKEN=$DOPPLER_TOKEN" >> $CM_ENV
```

> ### Retrieving secrets using the Doppler CLI
> 
> Secrets can be retrieved using the Doppler CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Retrieving secrets using the Doppler CLI
Secrets can be retrieved from Doppler using the Doppler CLI.
```

The following example shows how to retrieve a secret called `APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID` as plain text.

```
- name: Set vars from Doppler
        script: |
          echo "APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID=$(doppler secrets get APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID --plain)" >> $CM_ENV
```

If you want to retrieve a secret with multiline variable, like the `GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS` you can do it like this:

```
    echo "GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS<<DELIMITER" >> $CM_ENV
    echo "$(doppler secrets get GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS --plain)" >> $CM_ENV
          echo "DELIMITER" >> $CM_ENV
```

Notice that if you add the `GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS` make sure you choose **No** when it asks you to replace `\n` with new lines.

> ## Hashicorp Vault
> 
> 
> The following documentation shows how to do this using Hashicorp Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hashicorp Vault
The following documentation shows how to use secrets stored in Hashicorp Vault.
```
